So we've got a few different exercises.
One is to kind of play
around with this side nav.
Both in this case the items themselves,
just like that button can be auto layout.
And then also the navigation itself
can also be auto layout two.
And then, we'll look at in a little bit
like the idea of creating a menu bar.
But your your mission at this point is
to kind of like take this frame which is
just a regular old frame, and we want
to do is either take these menu items.
Or if you wanna create your own, here's
the component pieces and you can kinda
create nested auto layouts which we'll
kinda get into more in a little bit.
But and create a sidebar that kind
of like stacks up appropriately,
you can make them all go to the top.
You can have them go in the middle,
whatever you wanna do, and
we'll play around with it
together in a little bit.
So back to the main event, we wanna
make this frame an auto layout frame.
So Shift-A, we'll do that.
And you kinda see that this panel then
magically appeared if I hit undo,
it's gone.
If I hold this I hit Shift-A, it's back.
I can either create my own or
drag these in.
So let's drag that in.
And this one is set to hug contents,
right and if I wanted to make that
affects the way they can either choose to
drag it get a little bit taller or not.
This auto layout is set to align top left
which is justify start aligned start.
And then we can drag in another one.
And what's nice about this is I don't
have to lay all that position I was
doing before.
I don't have to do I just drag them in,
right, and then what I
can do is I can go ahead and adjust
the spacing and then all space out evenly.
I could theoretically,
depending on what I wanted to do,
align them down to the bottom,
we'll kind of nav them building.
The real trick that we're gonna
kind of explore in a second is,
just kinda like flexbox,
one flexbox is great.
Do you know what's
better than one flexbox?
Lots of flexboxes.
I heard you like flexbox, so
I put flexbox in your flexbox, right?
And so, these could, right now these
are just kind of positioned as well.
So I can go ahead and
I can make these, flexbox or,
sorry, auto layout,
Freudian slip, as well.
And so now these are auto layouts
inside of an auto layout.
Now they do need a little love in this
case coz they have some amount of overlap
coz we've changed things.
So what we can do is here we accidentally
as it tried to calculate what
the pattern should end up with negative
eight, which is not what we want.
So let's go ahead and turn that eight, so
now I've got spacing in
between each of these.
Okay, next, what's wrong with these?
They're kinda not aligned correctly,
this is where we can go ahead and
let's say start into the center.
Starting to the center,
starting to the center now also,
you can't see coz there's
no stroke on these bullets.
Like you can kind of see
if I just hover over them.
They're all kind of different with, which
I guess isn't bothering anyone except for
the fact that it's absolutely bothering
me and probably all of y'all.
So what we can do here is now,
for these nested ones,
we can say that their job is
to fill the container, right?
And so now they'll stretch out to
be a width of 100% in CSS term's.
As well, and then we can go ahead and
say that each of the,
let's say I don't really want
too much top padding there.
I like the left and the right,
so we'll keep that as well.
And so now yeah,
we can put the flexbox in inside of
the various flexbox things as well.
Let's say hypothetically one of
the situation where settings was at
the bottom, but we wanted notifications
and experiments at the top, right?
So what do we do about that.
Well, I know how to do one of them, right?
I can say fill container, and then I
can set this one actually to be top and
center.
Now, this would be problematic and
like if we were implementing because
this was entirely be clickable, right?
And you can be what if I want experiments
and notifications at the top?
You're like, well, just big settings,
the big one, no, right?
The answer is more flexbox or
more auto layout.
See, I slipped again,
which I can take these two, right?
And I can Shift-A them, right?
And so now this is also an auto layout,
but they set the fill container.
Yeah, let's make our menu
bar the source of truth.
So now, this one can also go ahead and
fill towards the top.
So these are each individual clickable
regions if we implemented this in
the DOM, right?
But this whole section will then
fill up all expanded space.
So basically, that's got to hide
a fool and it pushes the rest.
Now, if this one was also set as well then
we get into all the fun of playing and
messing around with flexbox,
let's not do that.
But basically a lot of times you can
create very complicated not the right
word, sophisticated, how about that
sophisticated makes us feel better?
Sophisticated layouts with auto layout.
And as developers, in a lot of ways you're
like, I don't know much about design.
You get a head start on this one
because you do this day in and
day out as you're laying
stuff out in the DOM.
And basically that mental model
completely applies here as well.
A lot of times we can get all of these
various effects by taking that same
intuition in CSS and applying it to
Figma and one auto layout is great.
A lot of times,
like auto layouts inside of auto
layouts will get you a lot farther.
Things like a menu bar where like,
can you think about the Safari or
Chrome not chrome console
that was towards the bottom.
But where the location bar is in
the center but kinda expands and
retracts with the window, but
you still have the back and forth buttons.
And then the other extensions on the other
side, you can kinda do those layouts
simply by having a bunch of nested auto
layouts that then kinda expand and
contract based on the width.
And you can even set a max width and
a max height here as well.
So, let's just do that, and
then we'll move into, I'm slightly
stepping into auto layout part two,
nested auto layouts, but that's fine.
We'll do a deeper dive in a second.
But let's set it, if I want the min-width
of this navigation bar to, let's say 180.
We can say the max width is,
360 in this case,
maybe that's a little much for
a navigation bar.
But you can see now it's got a, and
if this was inside of a container as well,
then you could also then choose
to say fill contents, but
it will never grow past its max width,
right?
And this will become really important for
us a little bit when we try to
do like responsive components.
Like, okay, have a card that's vertical
until it gets to a certain width and
then kind of switch into
a horizontal format, right?
You can say fill container,
but have a max size and
we can use that flex wrap and do a lot
of really, really interesting things.
That kind of feel a lot like implementing
responsive dynasty assess, but
we can do that in the design.
And this is kind of the thing I was
kind of saying the very beginning.
Like using similar approaches and both
the design that match up with how you'll
go about implementing it,
makes it easier to implement, right?
If all of a sudden the design has a bunch
of responsive design flexbox concepts,
when you get that design,
translating that into the actual
implementation becomes a lot easier.
Because the kind of mental
framework is already there for you.